Mixxx Privacy Policy (#301)
mixxxdj/website: content/pages/privacy-policy.md

title: Mixxx Privacy Policy
slug: privacy-policy

## Introduction

Mixxx is a non-profit project managed by volunteers.

There is no business model around Mixxx, and the only revenue we receive is through donations.

For privacy policies and conformance to GDPR, a few distinctions will be made between:

1. Mixxx application
2. Main Mixxx website
3. Community Mixxx websites

## 1. Mixxx Application

The Mixxx application doesn't require or use any kind of user account, nor does it collect any user data when being used.

Mixxx does not collect any data, nor any telemetry, when Mixxx is being run.

> However, some limited personal information could be collected or shared in 3 precise cases:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, some limited personal information could be collected or shared in 4 precise cases:

```

- for metadata retrieval
- during broadcasting
- during the crash report process
- during automatic updates process

> ### Mixxx Metadata Requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Mixxx Metadata Requests

```

Reviewer: At least the 1st/2nd-level headers are distinct.
Shall we use numbering here?

The Mixxx application can use the 3rd party MusicBrainz online service to collect metadata associated to your media.

These requests contain information about audio files on your computer, which is the [AcoustID](https://acoustid.org/), artist, title and album.
For this service, please refer their Privacy Policy here: [https://metabrainz.org/privacy](https://metabrainz.org/privacy)

A further option is the 'Find On Web' menu, which opens a 3rd party website in your web browser, using only the metadata listed in the particula sub-menu as search key.
Currently Mixxx supports web searches on the following 3rd party websites:

- [soundcloud.com](https://soundcloud.com)
- [discogs.com](https://www.discogs.com)
- [last.fm](https://www.last.fm)

> ### Broadcasting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Broadcasting

```

If you use the broadcasting feature of the Mixxx application, you need to enter login data of a third party Soundcast/Icecast server.
Mixxx itself doesn't offer such a service.
If used, the live audio stream as well as metadata of the played tracks is sent to these servers by the Mixxx application.

> ### Mixxx Crash Reporting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Mixxx Crash Reporting

```

Author: Indent

The Mixxx application itself neither collects crash reports nor shares them.

Crash reports may be handled by the vendors of each platform (e.g., through the [Windows Error Reporting](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/win32/wer/windows-error-reporting) feature).
Please refer to those platforms for information about the privacy policies.
Depending on the platform, Mixxx core developers have access to these reports, which usually contain:

- Operating System version
- CPU and GPU
- Symbolic StackTrace of the process
- List of DLLs loaded by the process

None of these data is stored on Mixxx servers.
In addition Mixxx writes a `mixxx.log` file which contains entries that may expose personal data. In a support case we may ask to share this file in public. This is a manual process during which you may obfuscate sensitive date before sharing.  

> ### Mixxx Update Mechanism

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Mixxx Update Mechanism

```

title: Mixxx Privacy Policy
slug: privacy-policy

## Introduction

Mixxx is a non-profit project, managed by volunteers.

There is no business-model around Mixxx, and the only revenue we receive is through donations.

For privacy policies and conformance to GDPR, a few distinctions will be done between:

- Mixxx application
- Main Mixxx website
- Community Mixxx websites

> For each of the previous software/websites, we'll detail the different privacy policies.

Reviewer 2: This sentence reads a bit bulky. Can we just remove it?
```suggestion
```

> ## Mixxx application

Reviewer 3: Title case (capitalize all words except minor ones) 

```suggestion
## Mixxx Application
```

> The Mixxx application doesn't use any user account, and does not collect any user data, when running.

Reviewer 2: We have user accounts for broadcasting and we may have in future accounts for Last.fm or others.

I think we want to say something lightly diffrent: 

```
The Mixxx application does not utilize user accounts to collect any user data while running. However, in certain specific functions, collecting and sharing limited personal information is required. This applies to the following three precise cases:
```

Than I would remove the bullet point list, but number the three cases to avoid duplication.

Author: Added broadcasting and removed Musicbrainz/Metadata dupliation

Mixxx does not collect any data, nor any telemetry, when Mixxx is being run.
However, some limited personal information could be collected or shared in 3 precise cases:

- during the crash report process,
- during updates checking,
- for metadata retrieval.

> ## Mixxx crash reporting

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Mixxx Crash Reporting
```

The Mixxx application itself neither collects crash reports nor shares them.

Crash reports are handled by the Stores/Vendors of each platforms.
Please refer to those platforms for information about the privacy policies.
Depending on the platform, Mixxx Core Developers have access to these reports, which usually contain:

- Operating System version
- CPU and GPU
- Symbolic StackTrace of the process
- List of DLLs loaded by the process

None of these data is stored on Mixxx servers.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition Mixxx writes a mixxx.log file which contains entries that may expose personal data. In a support case we may ask to share this file in public. This is a manual process during which you may obfuscate sensitive date before sharing.   
```

> ## Mixxx update mechanism

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Mixxx Update Mechanism
```

> The Mixxx application itself doesn't provide an update mechanism.

Reviewer 2: We are planning to add an automatic process using Sparkles. 

We may assume this is already in place now to release us from maintenance of this article.  
```suggestion
When downloading or updating the Mixxx application, your IP address and current Mixxx version may be logged temporarily for security and statistical purposes. This information is not used to identify individual users. 
```

Author: I think this is redundant, because it's about the main Mixxx Website, not what this section is describing.

Reviewer 2: Once we have Sparkes Mixxx will phone home, accessing a special RSS feed on our website and than starts the actual update if required. 

I like to have this info included buf I don't know

Author: Features that are not yet implemented do not belong in a Privacy Policy.

> Updates are handled by the Stores of each platforms, where the user has downloaded Mixxx from.
> Please refer to those platforms for information about the privacy policies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In case updates are handled by the platform stores, where the user has downloaded Mixxx from,
please refer to those platforms for information about the privacy policies.
```

> ## Mixxx metadata requests

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Mixxx Metadata Requests
```

Mixxx can automatically search online for metadata associated to your media, to 3rd parties.
Those requests can contain information about the media, including artist, title, album, etc...
This metadata mechanism can be disabled at every moment, in Mixxx preferences.

The main 3rd parties that can be contacted by Mixxx, automatically is:

>  - Mixxx MusicBrainz instance.

Reviewer 3: We have our own musicbrainz instance?

Author: I'm not sure how this access works

Author: According to Daniel, we've not an own instance.

>  - Mixxx MusicBrainz instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - MusicBrainz
```
We don't run an own instance

Please refer to those services for their own privacy policy.
Mixxx does not have access to any of those requests and data, except in the MusicBrainz case, detailed below, in this document.

> Mixxx mobile

Reviewer 3: ?

Author: I will remove this Copy/Paste error until Mixxx Mobile is ready ;-)

> Mixxx mobile

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> ## Main Mixxx website

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Mixxx Website
```

The main website of Mixxx, aka www.mixxx.org, does not create or use any user account.
There are no registration forms, or any similar mechanism.
Therefore, no personal information is stored at any moment, about the user, by Mixxx.

> ## Community Mixxx websites

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Community Mixxx Websites
```

Not sure if "Mixxx Community Websites" would be better.

The community websites from Mixxx are related to development and community, and are the following:

- GitHub
- Discourse Forum
- Zulip Chat

Each of those websites have different users system, but work in a similar way.

No user information is processed in any way other than being able to log in and have a profile.

> On GitHub no user information is shared to any 3rd party.

Reviewer 3: Really? Not sure about that. Shouldn't we jus link to their privacy policy instead?

> On GitHub no user information is shared to any 3rd party.

Reviewer 2: We cannot be sure. I don't think we should put any claims about third parties. Lets just refer to the third party policies.

Our Discourse Forum has an own Privacy Policy. You can find it at: [https://mixxx.discourse.group/privacy](https://mixxx.discourse.group/privacy)

One can modify their user information at any time, through the options of those websites.

One can request deletion of their account, by contacting Mixxx.

## MusicBrainz

Mixxx is running a MusicBrainz instance, that can be used to find information about a music, and artist and so on.

> Those automatic requests can contain information about the media, including artist, title, album, etc...

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Those automatic requests can contain information about the media, including artist, title, album, etc…
```

This metadata mechanism is accepted on the first run of Mixxx, and can be disabled at every moment, in Mixxx preferences.

The information sent does not contain any name, username, email from the user.

No information from the request is kept after the transaction.

> The connection logs can contain some limited information (like user-agents) and partial search next to the IP.

Reviewer 2: We don't run such instance. 
```suggestion
```

Author: Removed

> Last update date: 27 June 2023.

Reviewer 3: Can this go into the page metadata? If it should also be displayed here, let's make it italic:

```suggestion
*Last updated: 27 June 2023*
```

In addition Mixxx writes a `mixxx.log` file which contains entries that may expose personal data. In a support case we may ask to share this file in public. This is a manual process during which you may obfuscate sensitive date before sharing.  

#### Mixxx Update Mechanism

The Mixxx application itself doesn't provide an update mechanism.

In case updates are handled by the platform stores the user has downloaded Mixxx from,
please refer to those platforms for information about the privacy policies.

## 2. Main Mixxx Website

The main website of Mixxx, which can be accessed via the `mixxx.org` domain, does not create or use any user account.
There are no registration forms, or any similar mechanism.
Therefore, no personal information is stored at any moment by Mixxx.

## 3. Mixxx Community Websites

The Mixxx community websites are related to development and community, and are the following:

- GitHub (Code, Issue Tracking, Wiki)
- Discourse Forum
- Zulip Chat

Each of those websites have different users systems. In order to participate users need to create a login, share some personal data and accept cookies. Refer the privacy statements of these sites for details:

> - You can find the GitHub Privacy Statement here: [https://docs.github.com/de/site-policy/privacy-policies/github-privacy-statement](https://docs.github.com/de/site-policy/privacy-policies/github-privacy-statement)
> - You can find the Privacy Policy of the Mixxx Discourse Forum here: [https://mixxx.discourse.group/privacy](https://mixxx.discourse.group/privacy)
> - You can find the Zulip Privacy Policy here: [https://zulip.com/policies/privacy](https://zulip.com/policies/privacy)

Reviewer: Just to ease reading, and avoid line breaks in the list
```suggestion
- GitHub Privacy Statement: [https://docs.github.com/de/site-policy/privacy-policies/github-privacy-statement](https://docs.github.com/de/site-policy/privacy-policies/github-privacy-statement)
- Mixxx Discourse Forum Privacy Policy: [https://mixxx.discourse.group/privacy](https://mixxx.discourse.group/privacy)
- Zulip Privacy Policy: [https://zulip.com/policies/privacy](https://zulip.com/policies/privacy)
```

## Contact Us

> In case of privacy related question or requests, you can contact the `Mixxx Development Team` using the following e-mail address: ![Contact address for privacy issues]({static}/images/PrivacyAtMixxxDotOrg.png){align="top" height="25px" }

Reviewer: Don't 'real' crawlers filter for ..at..dot.. strings?
I mean the image is probably some level of spam protection, but do we really need it? Other addresses are also written out and I didn't hear we have serious spam issue, do we @daschuer @ywwg ?
https://github.com/mixxxdj/website/blob/website/theme/templates/pages/contact.html#L12-L15
alt: encode with base64, or rot13 ;)

Reviewer 3: Googles Spam Filter is pretty good, I don't think we need such countermeasures and can just write the address in plain text.

title: Mixxx Privacy Policy
slug: privacy-policy

## Introduction

> Mixxx is a non-profit project, managed by volunteers.
> 
> There is no business-model around Mixxx, and the only revenue we receive is through donations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mixxx is a non-profit project managed by volunteers.

There is no business model around Mixxx, and the only revenue we receive is through donations.

```

> For privacy policies and conformance to GDPR, a few distinctions will be done between:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For privacy policies and conformance to GDPR, a few distinctions will be made between:
```

1. Mixxx application
2. Main Mixxx website
3. Community Mixxx websites

## 1. Mixxx Application

> The Mixxx application doesn't use any kind of Mixxx user account, and doesn't collect any user data, when running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Mixxx application doesn't require or use any kind of user account, nor does it collect any user data when being used.

```

The Mixxx application doesn't require or use any kind of user account, nor does it collect any user data when being used.

> 

Reviewer 2: Extra blank line
```suggestion
```

> Mixxx does not collect any data, nor any telemetry, when Mixxx is being run.

Reviewer 2: This sentence is not ultimative correct, because of the mixxx log 
```suggestion
Mixxx does not perform any telemetry and does not share data without the express request of the user (Opt-in). 
```

Author: Were do we have Opt-In telemetry. If we have, this needs to explained in detail.

Reviewer: If you refer to the mixxx.log we'd also need to mention the database which stores last played, date added etc. ;)
But I think that is covered by the paragraph about bug reporting, no?

Reviewer: Btw this is now kind of redundant with the paragraph above?

Author: I combined both sentences now.

However, some limited personal information could be collected or shared in 3 precise cases:

- for metadata retrieval
- during broadcasting
- during the crash report process
- during automatic updates process

### Mixxx Metadata Requests

The Mixxx Application can use 3rd party online services to collect metadata associated to your media.

> These requests contain information about audio files on your computer, including artist, title, album, etc...

Reviewer 2: Including and etc feels redundant.  We share the AcoustID of the track in the first place. 
```suggestion
These requests contain information about audio files on your computer, which is the [AcoustID](https://acoustid.org/), artist, title and album.
```

The 3rd party that can be contacted by Mixxx is:

 - MusicBrainz - For this service, please refer their Privacy Policy here: [https://metabrainz.org/privacy](https://metabrainz.org/privacy)

> 

Reviewer 2: We use also the metadata lookup via the search box of: 
* SoundCloud
* duscogs
* Last.fm

Author: Addded!

> The 3rd party that can be contacted by Mixxx, automatically is:

Reviewer: This happens only on demand for selected tracks, via button in Track Properties or via the track menu. Or did I miss some option?

```suggestion
The Mixxx Application can use 3rd party online services to collect metadata associated to your media. 
These requests contain information about audio files on your computer, including artist, title, album, etc...

The 3rd party that can be contacted by Mixxx is:
```

### Broadcasting

If you use the broadcasting feature of the Mixxx application, you need to enter login data of a third party Soundcast/Icecast server.

> Mixxx itself doesn't offer such a service. Only metadata of the played tracks are send to these servers by the Mixxx application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Mixxx itself doesn't offer such a service. Only metadata of the played tracks is send to these servers by the Mixxx application.

```

### Mixxx Crash Reporting

The Mixxx application itself neither collects crash reports nor shares them.

Crash reports are handled by the Stores/Vendors of each platforms.
Please refer to those platforms for information about the privacy policies.
Depending on the platform, Mixxx Core Developers have access to these reports, which usually contain:

- Operating System version
- CPU and GPU
- Symbolic StackTrace of the process
- List of DLLs loaded by the process

None of these data is stored on Mixxx servers.
In addition Mixxx writes a mixxx.log file which contains entries that may expose personal data. In a support case we may ask to share this file in public. This is a manual process during which you may obfuscate sensitive date before sharing.  

### Mixxx Update Mechanism

The Mixxx application itself doesn't provide an update mechanism.

> In case updates are handled by the platform stores the user has downloaded Mixxx from,

Reviewer 2: Two sentences?

Author: I think this is very clear, as it is

> ### Mixxx Update Mechanism

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Mixxx Update Mechanism

```

> In case updates are handled by the platform stores, where the user has downloaded Mixxx from,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case updates are handled by the platform stores the user has downloaded Mixxx from,
```

please refer to those platforms for information about the privacy policies.

## 2. Main Mixxx Website

The main website of Mixxx, aka www.mixxx.org, does not create or use any user account.
There are no registration forms, or any similar mechanism.

> Therefore, no personal information is stored at any moment, about the user, by Mixxx.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Therefore, no personal information is stored at any moment by Mixxx.

```

> ## 3. Community Mixxx Websites
> 
> The community websites from Mixxx are related to development and community, and are the following:

Reviewer: may be nit-picking
Community Mixxx Websites > Mixxx Community Websites
Main Mixxx Website > Mixxx Main Website
```suggestion
## 3. Mixxx Community Websites

The Mixxx community websites are related to development and community, and are the following:

```

- GitHub (Code, Issue Tracking, Wiki)
- Discourse Forum
- Zulip Chat

> Each of those websites have different users system, but work in a similar way. In order to participate users need to create a login and a user profile which requires login data and cookies. Refer the privacy statements of these sites for details:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each of those websites have different users systems. In order to participate users need to create a login, share some personal data and accept cookies. Refer the privacy statements of these sites for details:

```

> Each of those websites have different users system, but work in a similar way. User need to log in and have a profile, this requires the use of login data and cookies. Refer the privacy statements of these sites for details:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each of those websites have different users system, but work in a similar way. In order to participate users need to create a login and a user profile which requires login data and cookies. Refer the privacy statements of these sites for details:

```

- You can find the GitHub Privacy Statement here: [https://docs.github.com/de/site-policy/privacy-policies/github-privacy-statement](https://docs.github.com/de/site-policy/privacy-policies/github-privacy-statement)
- You can find the Privacy Policy of the Mixxx Discourse Forum here: [https://mixxx.discourse.group/privacy](https://mixxx.discourse.group/privacy)
- You can find the Zulip Privacy Policy here: [https://zulip.com/policies/privacy](https://zulip.com/policies/privacy)

> One can modify their user information at any time, through the options of those websites.

Reviewer 2: We should not state anything which is out of our control
```suggestion
```

## Contact Mixxx

Various contact options are listed here: [Contact Mixxx](/contact)

> *Last updated: 27 June 2023*

Reviewer 2: We have the issue here that the policy is pointless without a legal entity. I am afraid we need a real person here.

Author: Creating a legal entity is out of scope of this PR. But I think we have to offer a solution to contact us, without creating an additional acoount at Discourse or Zulip.
What about a mail address privacy@mixxx.org ?

Author: According GDPR https://gdpr-info.eu/art-13-gdpr/ we need a person in control of the collected data, when we collect data. I think the only data we collect ourself, are the trafic logs of mixxx.org. Therefore the easiest way might be disabling any logging.

Reviewer 2: Our copy right holder entity is "Mixxx Development Team" maybe we can reuse this term here?

Author: As far as I have read, the privacy responsible does not have to be a natural person. Therefore `Mixxx Development Team` should be fine.

Reviewer: Do you have a source for this info?
Since this is all just for the MS Store, shold we Mixxx dev team, apply for the store and wait for the review?

Author: I think Microsoft does not check the policy itself. They just require an URL of the policy - and I added none.
We failed check of 10.5.1 of the Microsoft Store policy: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/apps/publish/store-policies#105-personal-information.

Author: > Do you have a source for this info?

In German: https://www.haufe.de/compliance/recht-politik/datenschutz-grundverordnung/dsgvo-datenschutzbeauftragter-oder-verantwortlicher_230132_454140.html

Reviewer: > "The natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body which, alone or jointly with others, decides on the purposes and means of the processing of personal data."

:+1:

> Various contact options are listed here: [Contact Mixxx](contact)

Reviewer 3: The link is broken. This should work:

```suggestion
Various options to get in touch are listed on the [contact page]({filename}/contact.md). 
```

Author: This doesn't work

Reviewer 3: Sorry, accidently used an absolute link where a relative one should be used (`{filename}contact.md` instead of `{filename}/contact.md` works fine). The current solution is brittle. If we rename the contact page or change the path structure this will stop working and pelican will not be able to warn us about the broken link.

Also, the current sentence sounds awkward to me.

Author: It's fixed already - using `/contact`

Reviewer 3: I know, this is why I elaborated why it's still a good idea to [use the proper way to link to internal content](https://docs.getpelican.com/en/latest/content.html#linking-to-internal-content):

> The current solution is brittle. If we rename the contact page or change the path structure this will stop working and pelican will not be able to warn us about the broken link.

Author: Changed

title: Mixxx Privacy Policy
slug: privacy-policy

## Introduction

Mixxx is a non-profit project managed by volunteers.

There is no business model around Mixxx, and the only revenue we receive is through donations.

For privacy policies and conformance to GDPR, a few distinctions will be made between:

1. Mixxx application
2. Main Mixxx website
3. Community Mixxx websites

## 1. Mixxx Application

The Mixxx application doesn't require or use any kind of user account, nor does it collect any user data when being used.

Mixxx does not collect any data, nor any telemetry, when Mixxx is being run.
However, some limited personal information could be collected or shared in 3 precise cases:

- for metadata retrieval
- during broadcasting
- during the crash report process
- during automatic updates process

### Mixxx Metadata Requests

> The Mixxx Application can use the 3rd party MusicBrainz online service to collect metadata associated to your media.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Mixxx application can use the 3rd party MusicBrainz online service to collect metadata associated to your media.

```

These requests contain information about audio files on your computer, which is the [AcoustID](https://acoustid.org/), artist, title and album.
For this service, please refer their Privacy Policy here: [https://metabrainz.org/privacy](https://metabrainz.org/privacy)

A further option is the 'Find On Web' menu, which opens a 3rd party website in your web browser, using only the metadata listed in the particula sub-menu as search key.
Currently Mixxx supports web searches on the following 3rd party websites:

- [soundcloud.com](https://soundcloud.com)
- [discogs.com](https://www.discogs.com)
- [last.fm](https://www.last.fm)

### Broadcasting

If you use the broadcasting feature of the Mixxx application, you need to enter login data of a third party Soundcast/Icecast server.

> Mixxx itself doesn't offer such a service. Only metadata of the played tracks is send to these servers by the Mixxx application.

Reviewer 3: What about audio data? :smile: 

```suggestion
Mixxx itself doesn't offer such a service.
If used, the live audio stream as well as metadata of the played tracks is sent to these servers by the Mixxx application.
```

### Mixxx Crash Reporting

The Mixxx application itself neither collects crash reports nor shares them.

> Crash reports are handled by the Stores/Vendors of each platforms.

Reviewer 3: This only applies to windows, right? If so, I think this makes it clearer:

```suggestion
Crash reports may be handled by the vendors of each platform (e.g., through the [Windows Error Reporting](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/wer/windows-error-reporting) feature).
```

Please refer to those platforms for information about the privacy policies.

> Depending on the platform, Mixxx Core Developers have access to these reports, which usually contain:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Depending on the platform, Mixxx core developers have access to these reports, which usually contain:

```

- Operating System version
- CPU and GPU
- Symbolic StackTrace of the process
- List of DLLs loaded by the process

None of these data is stored on Mixxx servers.

> In addition Mixxx writes a mixxx.log file which contains entries that may expose personal data. In a support case we may ask to share this file in public. This is a manual process during which you may obfuscate sensitive date before sharing.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In addition Mixxx writes a `mixxx.log` file which contains entries that may expose personal data. In a support case we may ask to share this file in public. This is a manual process during which you may obfuscate sensitive date before sharing.  

```

### Mixxx Update Mechanism

The Mixxx application itself doesn't provide an update mechanism.

In case updates are handled by the platform stores the user has downloaded Mixxx from,
please refer to those platforms for information about the privacy policies.

## 2. Main Mixxx Website

> The main website of Mixxx, aka www.mixxx.org, does not create or use any user account.

Reviewer 3: sounds too colloquial for a privacy policy IMHO

```suggestion
The main website of Mixxx, which can be accessed via the `mixxx.org` domain, does not create or use any user account.
```
